King Gizzard & The Lizard Wizard | Gizzard Teenage (7/10)
Favorite Tracks: Ants And Bats, Summer!, Eddie Cousin, Tomb/Beach, Life Is Cool

This is not *technically* the first actual release by the band (that goes to Anglesea EP) and it's actually one of the most recent releases by KGATLW as part of their "Bootlegger" system, but since the material featured is actually from 2010-11, I've decided to put it where it chronologically belongs: the very start.

As someone who has long loved this band and heared their more moodern output, I find hearing them as this very rough and, to be honest, not that interesting surf garage rock compared to what they would do later on pretty interesting, if just for seeing their evolution and the occasional highlights: as an example, *Summer!* features lyrics that would reappear in *Muddy Water* in Gumboot Soup, the suprise appearance of a female singer on *Good To Me*, the slower *Tomb/Beach* being a nice break from the constant noise-riddled rock of the rest of the songs, and Stu definitely having its hand on those weird guitar noises shit, loud "WOO"s and other weird mouth noises that are basically standard for Gizzard. Oh, and a completely new unreleased track, *Life Is Cool*, so, there's that as well.

King Gizzard & The Lizard Wizard | Willoughby's Beach (8/10)
Favorite Tracks: Crookedile, Black Tooth, Let It Bleed, Dustbin Fletcher, Willoughby's Beach

Released a couple of months and/or weeks after Anglesea (no, I cannot find an actual date for when Anglesea was released, only the year), Willoughby's Beach pretty much continues on from the material released on 2010-2011, but in a much more refined way: the very lo-fi sound is pretty much still present, but it isn't as scratchy as most of the Gizzard Teenage material was, and instruments in general have a lot more space in the mix than in previous material. It's still surf garage rock-y at its heart, but it's pretty much an improvement over Gizzard Teenage in every way. This is also the start of Gizzard's use of instruments not common in Western music, as the theremin is present in the album, and their eclectic selection of instruments would grow from here.

King Gizzard & The Lizard Wizard | 12 Bar Bruise (7/10)
Favorite Tracks: Nein, Garage Liddiard, Sam Cherry's Last Shot, Cut Throat Boogie

This is about the last time KG&TLW will be full on surf garage rock, as they slowly transition into something a bit more psychedelic and eclectic: to start off, we have the teaser track *Sam Cherry's Last Shot*, which would hint at what would come to be the next Gizzard album, Eyes Like The Sky, with its Spaghetti Western-inspired instrumentation and narration provided by Ambrose's father, but that's for later. Other than that, I don't have much else to say since pretty much everything I've said about Willoughb's Beach also applies to this and dear God I am getting tired of surf garage rock please end this.

King Gizzard & The Lizard Wizard | Eyes Like The Sky (8/10)
Favorite Eyes: Eyes Like The Sky, The Raid, Fort Whipple, Dust In The Wind

So, remember how I was talking about *Sam Cherry's Last Shot* on 12 Bar Bruise and how it was a hint of things to come? Well, here's one of those things: Eyes Like The Sky, a Western Spaghetti-influenced concept album, with narration by Broderick Smith, Ambrose Kenny-Smith's father. While still keeping with the lo-fi production, the music has taken a complete 180 and turned into something that, while I enjoyed its western-ness, it's not something I see myself return to often.

Inspired by Red Dead Redemption and Western films, the album starts by introducing us to character called Eyes Like The Sky, real name Miguel O'Brien, an infamous bandits grown by an Apache tribe after his family was slaughtered in a raid and he was taken away. As he is trained by the Apache, he becomes an exceptional warrior and is nickname "Eyes Like The Sky".

One day, the Civil War starts, and while the tribe members are taken as prisoners and slaves, he is brought along to Fort Whipple by the God Man and let to freely live there like them, getting the new nickname of "Blues" and learning how to speak, read, write and how to use a gun. After watching the God Man rape one of the Yavapai girls, Blues kills him, and takes the girl and provisions while they escape the Fort. One day, they hear of rumors about white men being killed by apparently various tribes, and Blues quickly guesses that it was actually a set up by the white men to spur their troops to attack the tribes.

And he is correct, because as soon as they try to leave, they are assaulted by gunmen, killing the girl but leaving Blues alive as he dived for cover. Blues eventually manages to wound all four of the men and leave them for dead, and as he escapes from the scene, he finds two white men dressed as Yavapai, and decides to end them. The End... huh? Oh, well, I guess that's that.

King Gizzard & The Lizard Wizard | Float Along - Fill Your Lungs (9/10)
Favorite Lungs: Head On/Pill, God Is Calling Me Home, Let Me Mend The Past, Mystery Jack, Pop In My Step, Float Along - Fill Your Lungs

Holy hell we're finally out of that stange early forest, and now KGATLW are advancing towards a more common sounds of they're more popular with, which is fully demonstrated and presented by the opening track alone, the 16 minutes psych rock jam *Head On/Pill*; featuring a sitar throughout most of its length (and through most of the album), which is the start of the band's interest in Eastern music that would become the main topic of Explorations into Microtonal Tuning Volume 1 and 2, and psychedelic music, which would become the standing stone that later Gizzard releases were based on. God it feels great to listen something familiar for once.

King Gizzard & The Lizard Wizard | Oddments (8/10)
Favorite Tracks: Stressin', Vegemite, ABABCD, Hot Wax, Homeless Man in Adidas, Oddments

If the name Oddments didn't gave it away, this is a compilation of songs that didn't worked for release on albums and that, until this release, were collecting dust. Thus, you shouldn't expect a coherent flow, sound or thematic throughout the tracklist: it's just... Oddments (*badumtush*). One listen could consists, as an example from the album, a keyboard and noisy-as-hell "The Doors"-type track, followed by a completely mellow psych rock ballad, to then get hit with "I LOVE I LOVE MY VEGEMITE-". Yeah, you can kinda see why this is one of the lesser-looked albums of early Gizz. But you know what? I kinda like the absolute fucking randomess of it, even if means having jarring track transitions.

Oh, and strangely, it also features the most streamed track by KGATLW on Spotify, It's Got Old. Yeah, I don't know why either.

King Gizzard & The Lizard Wizard | I'm In Your Mind Fuzz (10/10)
Favorite Fuzz: I'm In Your Mind/I'm Not In Your Mind/**Cello**phane/I'm In Your Mind Fuzz, Slow Jam 1, Am I In Heaven?, Satan Speeds Up, Empty, Hot Water

What can I say? This is *the* record that put King Gizzard and the Lizard Wizard on the radar of many, including some that are reading this right now, and there's a very good reason for it: it's just so fucking *good*. Starting the technique of seamlessly transitioning from track to track (the Mind Fuzz suite), to their repetitive but catchy tunes (notice how one of the members has a NEU! shirt on Float Along - Fill Your Lungs), to the "Gizzverse" (should I even try to explain what that is? I dunno, someone tell me if it worth it or not). If you don't want to deal with early band weirdness that I've talked about before, start here. I assure you won't regret it at all.