Porcupine Tree | Tarquin's Seaweed Farm (8/10)
Favorite Tracks: Jupiter Island, Towel, Mute (Part 2/Part 3), No Reason To Live No Reason To Die, The Cross/Hole/Yellow Hedgerow Dreamscape

Released in 1989 as one of three demo cassettes, Porcupine Tree at this point was nothing else but Steven Wilson alone doing the majority of the music while his friend Malcolm Stocks provided ideas, extra vocals and guitar sounds, and it all originated as nothing more than a joke band pastiching 60's psych rock in its own, curious way. It's not completely making fun of it, but instead using its tropes and ideas and working them in a new way, which includes Steven's own interest in experimenting with the sounds he could create with guitars and other instruments, and even including a cover of Prince's The Cross. As a simple joke, this is quite a well-made one and somewhat representative of what Porcupine Tree would end up becoming, although it should probably be said that tracks 1-7 would reappear *On The Sunday Of Life...*, while the remaining material would resurface in a compilation of left-over material from the cassettes, *Yellow Hedgerow Dreamscape*.

Porcupine Tree | Love, Death & Mussolini (8/10)
Favorite Tracks: Linton Samuel Dawson, And The Swallows Dance Above The Sun, Out/It Will Rain For A Million Years

The second of the three demo cassettes, LDM continues on the exploration of psychodelic rock tropes, and this time adding some more progressive rock influences (SW has stated that during his early childhood in the 80's, he was the odd one out from his school mates liking The Dark Side Of The Moon and such instead of whatever band in the 80's was popular), which is definitely part of what influenced how he writes and composes. Slowly, Steven Wilson as The Porcupine Tree is starting to gain a shape more similar to fans of the actual early works (*On The Sunday of Life*, *Up The Downstairs*, *The Sky Moves Sideways*), and even some early heavy hints of the future of PT, while still having that classic psych and prog rock tinges to it. It also features what's currently my favorite track of this run, the Middle East-sounding 8 minute prog jam Out ("get out of my head... darkness!").

Oh, and if anyone asks, LDM's version of It Will Rain For A Million Years is completely different from On The Sunday Of Life's, so there.

Porcupine Tree | The Nostalgia Factory (8/10)
Favorite Tracks: The Nostalgia Factory, Hokey Cockey, Nine Cats, It Will Rain For A Million Years

The last of the three demo cassettes, The Nostalgia Factory features on its first half all the material from Love, Death & Mussolini, so we'll skip all of that right ahead and go for the new material, which starts with *Colours Dance Angel Kiss*, a little prog tune with Steven Wilson's chipmunk voice (oh yeah, a couple of the demos tracks feature Steven Wilson's voice raised for some reason. Perhaps as the part of the joke? I don't know), and ends with a new version of It Will Rain For A Million Years, which would be featured, alongside with a lot of this material, on the proper debut album: On The Sunday Of Life...

Porcupine Tree | On The Sunday Of Life... (8/10)
Favorite Sundays: Jupiter Island, The Nostalgia Factory, Radioactive Toy, Linton Samuel Dawson, And The Swallows Dance Above The Sun, This Long Silence, It Will Rain For A Million Years

Hey, so you know everything that I said about Tarquin's Seaweed Farm, 'Love, Death & Mussolini' and The Nostalgia Factory? Well, all of that is literally applicable to On The Sunday Of Life... to a T, since basically every chunk of those cassettes was used to make this one album. I kinda realized now that making this album after listening to the demos might not have been a good idea, but hey! More Porcupine Tree for me, even if I've heard it before, so I can't really complain, can I?

If I had to recommend a good listen out of the four early release, I would recommend both Love, Death & Mussolini, On The Sunday Of Life... and the not charted compilation Yellow Hedgerow Dreamscape, which contains the rest of what you missed from On The Sunday Of Life...

Porcupine Tree | Voyage 34 (9/10)
Favorite Tracks: Phase I, Phase II

So, finally, completely new material, featuring recordings of people tripping on LSD and a 60's PSA about the dangers of LSD.

And this one is quite an interesting change, too: as the ambient scene blew up during the early 90's, Steven wanted to throw his own hat on the ring to try and see if it was possible to bring the ambient trance sound that was becoming more and more popular to his own work, so he started working during the sessions of Up The Downstairs about incorporating this new popular elements. As of me writing this, I've still not listened to Up The Downstairs, but research leads me to believe Voyage 34 is pretty close to what UTDS does. However, Steven wanted to originally release Voyage 34 as a second disc for the album, and ended up releasing it as a single for the album.

Curiously, technically Voyage 34 is only Phase I and II, with Phase III and IV being remixes of Phase I and II respectively: III was done by the electronic group Astralasia, while IV is a remix done in-house by SW and future band member Richard Barbieri, who appears as a guest member in UTDS and becomes a permanent member for the band on The Sky Moves Sideways. Neat. 

(Oh yeah for this review I didn't listened to Phase III and IV. Maybe some other time, but not right now.)

(~~Also the main riff through V34 is totally Another Brick in the Wall Part I, you can't lie to us Steve boy~~)