Car Seat Headrest | 1 (8/10)
Favorite tracks: mortages for veterans, happy/ugly, inside the bell jar, big jacket

Jeez this is rough. This is about as lo-fi as I've listened, and even then, I don't think I've found something as rough as this album except for maybe *Arañas en la Sombras* by ORL or some live bootlegs. And even yet, what's here is impressive.

It's very obviously a very early example of Toledo's sound that he would develop later on in projects like Twin Fantasy (Face to Face) [that's my only other reference to CSH so if it isn't a good example then shush], but even here in this more amateur, rougher, lo-fi state, you can clearly tell that there's a talent, sound and attitude that Toledo has already developed, that you can tell that's his own. A lot of the lyrics seem to mostly be nonsensical, as Toledo himself noted in an interview, but the handful that we have here show the mind of a teenager going through the waves, expressing whatever there was in his head at the time.

Car Seat Headrest | 2 (8/10)
Favorite tracks: we are in space, the majestic hotel, fiction I, ...then it will be exactly the same as earth

Honestly, most of what I said in my review of 1 also applies to 2, except for a few new tools in Toledo's arsenal: atonality (also bassboosting because I sure love having my ears bleeding) and something other than guitars and drums: piano! A actual pair of ballads! Amazing.

Car Seat Headrest | 3 (9/10)
Favorite: beach funeral, beach death, summer bummer, beach f*gz, foreign song, oh! starving, beach weak, portrait of the artist as a young f*g

In this album, Will finally breaks away for a good chunk of its run time from using the lofi aesthetic to create noise, and instead focuses in creating more sweet ballads with acoustic guitars. This album seems to delve more and more into the topics of relations (all of the "beach" songs except for possibly "beach drugs"), the furry fandom he belongs to ("portrait of the young artist...") and his own sexuality (the use of the word "f*g" on two of the tracks). Overall, it's a much more refined experience than 2 or 1, and if you really want to get into early CSH, I recommend giving 3 a chance.

Car Seat Headrest | 4 (9/10)
Favorite: even the who knows, around, not "kidding" around, dickless heart, the ghost of bob saget 
CSH Can Be Consistent

To be serious, Will has finally stopped aggressively using noise (there's no backward lines, to begin with!) and instead embraced fully the use of acoustics. Hell, the final song, around, features trumpets! A first for CSH.

And the lyrics are finally taking a more mature tone, even if just slightly. There's the depressive wish that you were never born (not "kidding" around), the telling of a tale which could be seen as some kind of metaphor for Toledo's struggle as a homosexual man (the ghost of bob segat) and the fear that one day you might make your best work in the worst mental state (feel like daniel johnston).

Car Seat Headrest | Little Pieces of Paper With "No" Written On Them (7/10)
Favorite: neon sign, get better get well, squid desert, nothing, when I'm here, the vice president of google and et al

This 21 track album, consisting of outtakes, rarities and unfinished projects from Toledo, is, as an album of that kind, not quite coherent on sound and themes. Song ranges from rests of an acoustic album, a project revolving around using samples of the album "Abbey Road" to create loops, and from there, new songs, to removed songs of 5, now known as My Back is Killing Me Baby; all the way to a song that Toledo doesn't even know why it was made (hot burn). There's also some filler material, yes, but everything fits in Toledo's early lo-fi aesthetic. Overall, eh. Good, but not great.

Car Seat Headrest | My Back is Killing Me Baby (9/10)
Favorite: happy news for sadness, stoop kid, something soon, p.o.w.

We're slowly getting to the Big One, but first, My Back is Killing Me Baby. Toledo is slowly more and more taking small baby steps towards making something beyond the typical "lo-fi indie" that he's been stuck since 1. Now, he is slowly starting to integrate more ideas and sounds, like keyboards in open-mouthed boy and something soon. Lyrics are waving between nonsense like and actually having a meaning, this time, dealing with Will's life at the moment that he wrote the songs, his isolation, loneliness and almost paranoia in sunburned shirts, to his feelings of suddenly changing university on something soon. Absolutely recommended to start here if you are interested in listening to early CSH, but not go too far and instead stay to something vaguely mid-fi.

Car Seat Headrest | Twin Fantasy (Mirror to Mirror) [9/10]
Favorite: Beach Life-in-Death, Nervous Young Inhumans, Twin Fantasy (Those Boys), My Boy (Twin Fantasy), Famous Prophets (Minds)

Here We Are, the most acclaimed album by Will Toledo in the indie sphere, and you know what? It deserves the acclaim, even if I can't connect to it emotionally, objectively I can see how this albums moves others. The production is still quite lo-fi, but it's slowly getting better to not sound completely amateur, and features what are probably some of Will's most famours songs, like Beach Life-in-Death, Nervous Young Inhumans and Cute Thing. Lyrics still take place as nonsensical but moving, now that they feature more direct references to Toledo's relation to Cate at the time, from their breakdowns, to how previous songs in CSH' albums referenced this relation, to Toledo's fear in how his homosexuality will be reacted by his family, to his awkwardness and introvert attitude. If you want to start somewhere not quite hi-fi, but not quite lo-fi, this is absolutely recommended.

Car Seat Headrest | Monomania (8?/10) 
Favorite: Misheard Lyrics, Overexposed (Enjoy), Los Borrachos, Souls, Sleeping with Strangers, Anchorite (Love You Very Much)

If Twin Fantasy is the relation album, Monomania is the breakup album, and that's quite deliberate: Will ended up breaking with Cate Wurtz in a quite messy way after the release of Twin Fantasy, which lead to this album. Just to quickly mention: no, that's not a fire in the cover. If you pay real close attention, it's actually a photo of someone (presumably Will or Cate) superimposed over the original photo.

Now, the music. it's quite the departure from Twin Fantasy's mainly rock sound, instead going for a more horns-featured, synth-leaden rock with the occasional drum machine here and there, but that doesn't mean that the rock is completely gone. Oh no, it's quite everywhere still, especially when Will starts shouting or getting angry about it. It's quite emotional, actually, but not in the Twin Fantasy's "oh this is quite relatable" sort of emotional. More in a "oh Will is angry about the breakup and especially with Cate" sort of emotional. The final song, Anchorite (Love You Very Much), features a section of Will just shouting insults towards Cate, so yeah, you can see how much this affected him at the time. 
Besides the topic of religion which has started cropping up more and more, we also have gems like lyrics about a hypothetical scene if Will commits suicide (Sleeping with Strangers), to a general feeling of disillusion with the relation and his partner in almost every song, and the rare callback to Twin Fantasy in the ways of lyrics from that album appearing in here.

Oh, you might have noticed the ? after my score. It means that I'll definitely have to give this album a second listen. (All of this reviews are normally written and done after a listen or two, and while the album is coming to an end), so stay tuned for Monomania Revisited at some point in the future.

Car Seat Headrest | Living While Starving (7/10)
Favorite: Reuse the Cels, Devil Moon, oh! starving

I'll side with Will on this one: production and instrumental-wise, this has quite a few interesting ideas played throughout its 21 minutes length. Problem: this has probably the worst lyrics Toledo has written, point. The worst offender of this is the intro track, It's Only Sex, which features a whiny Toledo talking about "But I don’t care about hundreds of hypothetical people/And their hypothetical sex deals/I care about me, and my sex deal!/What about my problems?" after reading blogs talking about sexuality. Yeah. Not one I'll come back to, except for the songs on the Favorite part above.

Car Seat Headrest | Live at WCMWM (8/10)
Favorite: Los Borrachos, Kitty Pride, Bodys
A live album! Featuring a completely new song that was only released on this album! And other people besides Will! Woah!

To be serious for a moment, despite it only being 5 tracks and 22 minutes long, it shows that there's definitely an energy to live CSH, especially as more skilled people take some weight out of Toledo's shoulders with a drummer, bassist and another guitarist to accompany Will's, with the occasional vocal help. The only real problem I have is that it's way too short and wished it had more to offer. This might even become an album that I put on constant repeat? Who knows.

Car Seat Headrest | Nervous Young Man (8/10)
Favorite: Boxing Day, Homes, Broken Birds, The Gun Song, I Can Play The Piano, Dreams Fall Hard, Plane Crash Blues, Death at the Movies, Jus' Tired, Some Strange Angel, Knife in the Coffee

Created as a conceptual "Greatest Hit" for CSH at that point, Nervous Young Man... is a bit of a mess, length-wise, and really, that's my main problem with the album. It's 2 hours long with 20 tracks on it, and trust me, when you reach the halfway point, you would like to have the album to be over at that point.

Besides that? This is a bit of a step up from Monomania and Living While Starving (especially in lyrics), as Will is more heavily relying on synths and drum machines, making this electronic indie rock combination. Other things to notice are the more cleaner sound (except when Will wants to compress anything because it wouldn't be indie rock music without everything sounded like it's coming from a broken down radio) and the more reference-laden lyrics, which still feature the same ol' subjects that Toledo has singed since 1: relations, depression, mental illness, and now featuring abusive relations (Homes) and existential dread (Afterglow)! Amazing.

Car Seat Headrest | Disjecta Membra (9/10)
Favorite: Unfinished: Pain Star, Memories, Sinner, Dream: Encounter on the Smoke Mountain, The Hard Part, Napoleon (March Into Russia), Love Me Too Much, When Will My Man Come?, If Not Then Oh Well

If I had to describe this album in one phrase, it would "shortened and therefore a better Nervous Young Man". Considering that this is an outtake collection of tracks that didn't make it the cut into NYM, that's saying something. Yes, there's no cohesive concept or theme between the songs, but I prefer this concepless but more free album over NYM's "Greatest Hit" concept that ended up hurting it the most. It also features what's probably my favorite CSH song at the moment, Dream: Encounter On The Smoke Mountains and Unfinished: Pain Star (If Heaven is full of People...).


Car Seat Headrest | How To Leave Town (10/10)
Favorite: Hey, Space Cadet!, The Ending of Dramamine, Beast Monster Thing, Kimochi Warui, You're In Love With Me, America (Never Been), I Want You To Know That I'm Awake/I Hope That You're Asleep

Released as outtakes from Teens of Denials (I haven't heard that album yet but how did these tracks even came out from that album's sessions?), which would release two years later after this EP/album's release, this is a completely new sound for CSH, leaning even more heavily on synths and keyboards than ever before, creating a sort of space-y, dreamy vibe that never really gives up in it's 1 hour runtime. It is absolutely a one-of-a-kind (you could say that Living While Starving and Monomania had a somewhat similar style, but those still heavily relied more in the indie sound). It also features some of the longest songs in CSH's discography (The End of Dramanine, Hey, Space Cadet!), which are not a detriment to the song's themselves: it feels like they've earned their right to be that long, with Dramanine's slow, drum heavy intro to Space Cadet!'s loud, explosive intro, not a single second on this EP/album is wasted at all.

Car Seat Headrest | Teens of Style (8/10)
Favorite: Los Borrachos, oh! starving, Times To Die, the drum, Maud Gone, "psst, teenagers, take off your clo", something soon, sunburned

Created as an introduction album to newer listeners of CSH to old material, as by this time, Will signed an album deal with Matador Records, Teens of Style not only would be the first commercial release by Car Seat Headrest outside of the band's Bandcamp, it would also be a subtle hint of what the future had in hold for CSH's fans (coughFace to Facecough). Featuring Andrew Katz and Jacob Bloom on drums and bass accordingly, this formation would also be the one that toured to promote this album and record this album alongside Will Toledo on vox and guitars.

We've finally crossed the mid and lo-fi lines, ladies and gentlemen: Teens of Style is the first fully hi-fi album in the CSH, meaning that it no longer feels like you're listening to it through a radio or a blender, depending on which era you're listening. This re-recordings of old CSH (mostly from My Back Is Killing Me Babe, alongside a few songs from 3 and Monomania) are the freshest they've ever been, and while yes, certain elements contain a very heavy amount of distortion, it doesn't become into the wall of noise that those early records had, and instead, it feels like a view of a possible timeline where Will actually had a budget during those high-school and college days. If you are curious about those old albums but don't enjoy the amateur production, then I completely recommend Teens of Style.

Car Seat Headrest | Teens of Denial (9/10)
Favorite: Vincent, Drugs With Friends, Just What I Needed/Not Just What I Wanted, Drunk Drivers/Killer Whales, Unforgiving Girl, Cosmic Hero, The Ballad of the Costa Concordia, Connect the Dots

And we've reached the album that finally catapulted Will Toledo to a sort of mainstream, with not only accolades from big names like Pitchfork and Rolling Stones, but in general, the names "Car Seat Headrest" and "Will Toledo" started gaining more and more popularity and recognition.

Now, for the album itself: it is very much a streamlined and much tighter CSH than ever before in the band's history, with a distinctive rock sound all over the place. It's almost to the point that the idea that there was ever once a Will that produced albums like 1 or Monomania with such lo-fi sound and production seems like some grand hallucination. In any case, lyrics-wise, the album has a general depression theme on it (Fill in the Blanks), alongside the sentiment of becoming a rock-star (Connect the Dots) and the mentions of an alter-ego created for this album, Joe (Joe Goes to School, Drugs With Friends). 

I do, however, agree with a point that was made in a video whose name I've forgotten: Teens of Denial dips its toe into those subjects previously mentioned but never beyond, which older albums like Twin Face (Mirror to Mirror) or Monomania weren't scared to sink into the subjects of depression and relationship problems. That's why I feel that, while yes, a great album, it doesn't have that depth that other albums had that CSH released prior.

Car Seat Headrest | Twin Fantasy (Face to Face) [10/10]
Favorite 5: Famous Prophets (Stars), Nervous Young Inhumans, Beach Life-In-Death, Bodys, Sober To Death

And Here We Are, the album that made Will some buzz on the indiesphere, now re-recorded and remade not only for the mainstream scene that Will managed to get into after the release of Teens of Denial, but made to reflect on that album and his feelings during its recording. The subtitles now applied to the original release, Mirror to Mirror, and the 2018 re-release, Face to Face, are probably how to best see this albums and its themes: with Mirror to Mirror as a reflection of what Will felt at the time, as a naive 19-something teenager who was still discovering about himself, and Face to Face as the now adult 26-year-old man, closing that chapter of his life.

For the most part, the album's songs have remained the same, but changed to better fit Will's vision of how he wanted them to be, with much clearer and tighter production, cleaning off the lo-fi, amateur production to give us a warm and emotional one. Lyrics, however, have certainly have been changed, not only to reflect on Will's current tastes ("Give me Frank Ocean's voice/and James Brown's stage presence", Cute Thing) or in general to show a more "truthful" version of the relationship at the time, but a completely new speech in Nervous Young Inhumans due to the word "galvanistic" having been removed (now showing the narrator as hypocritical instead of the explanation for what "galvanistic" means) from the speech in Twin Fantasy (Those Boys), in which Will finally declares this chapter in his life closed, and to now consider it "just lyrics", where in the original speech, Will "dissociates himself from his own romance", trying desperately to cling to this broken relationship through the fantasy of the album's lyrics. Without a doubt, Will's opus magnum, something that any fan of Teens of Denial should listen to.

1 Trait Danger | 1 Trait High (8/10)

hey yo wassup my boi cello here with another p h a t review on this piece-o-shit chart with some no-name furry band called seat car headrest or whatever the fuck anyways this is like top banger with woke synths. only 8 because its like good tho

(To be serious: it's a pretty interesting and humorous side project, much more... synthwave-y, I guess? I'll also keep it in mind when doing the MADLO review when that comes up as I've heard some comparison to it with 1TD. Uh, favorite tracks are Saturday's For The Boys, Alien Boy, Oh Actually and All My Friends Are Dying.)

Car Seat Headrest | Commit Yourself Completely (8/10)

It's a good live album. I really can't say anything else about it, really, so, uh, my only real complain is that I would have preferred to have a live Twin Fantasy album instead, I guess? Dunno what you would even call it.

1 Trait Danger | 1 Trait World Tour (8/10)
Favorite: Clap When I'm Dead, Bedtime Bowie, Multiple Computer Mark, Reprisal

alright boys so like, this is 1td's big masterplan for eternal success: just do like the same old album but better, so now the old stuff looks like shit compare to the new one. g e n i u s, 10/10 would cry again IGN. see car seat buttrest this is how you make shit not your quadriple fantasy or whatever the fuck that furry shit is called

(Serious time: it's just another well-rounded comedy electronic album, but I gotta be honest, when the first tracks hits you with EDM BWOM BWOM I completely lost it. So, yeah, I guess it did it's job of being comedic.)

Car Seat Headrest | Making A Door Less Open (9/10)
Favorites: Life Worth Missing, Hymn, Hollywood, Deadlines, There Must Be More Than Blood, Weightlifters

So, for the latest album for Car Seat Headrest at the moment of writing, what do we get? Car Seat Headrest going pop, which for me, means the same like "King Crimson going new wave" - just because it's completely different from what they made before, it doesn't mean that it's bad. Funnily enough, both CSH and the example I gave had a "prelude" albums of sort (the 1 Trait Danger albums for MADLO, Robert Fripp's Exposure for King Crimson in the 80's). The pop, electronic elements on MADLO really don't sound that out of place, even without 1TD in this context (How To Leave Town featured a heavy synth lean, and Teens of Denial was more 'straight back' so to speak), so this album doesn't really feel odd to me, and feels like a worthy add to Car Seat Headrest's discography.

And with that out of the way, I really want to speak something that other reviews (mostly from RYM) talk about as a con for MADLO: "but it's not like Twin Fantasy! I expected better from Will! Expectations were higher for this!" Every time I see this I just sort of groan to myself, because at least for me, Will realized that trying to do another Twin Fantasy wouldn't have worked and it would be terrible, so instead of that, he focused on doing something completely different from TF, which is where he turned to electronica for inspiration. And really, while yes, people to have the right to expect great things from Toledo, expecting him to make another Twin Fantasy grade album is just silly. At best, he could re-record Monomania, but that's it, really. 

And with that, Car Seat Headrest is done. Tune in next time for... well I have no idea. We'll see.