Steven Wilson | Unreleased Electronic Music (7/10)
Favorite Tracks: King of the Delta Blues, The Tobboganist, To Wear A Crown, Nailbomber, Slut 1.4

A neat little collection of various electronic music pieces made between 1990 and 2003, but that's really it. There's not much worthwhile to mention, since electronic music isn't exactly an element that SW would use later on in his albums, so it just sits as this strange little thing, probably alongside Tape Experiments (still haven't heard it by the time I'm writing this).

Steven Wilson | Insurgentes (9/10)
Favorite Tracks: Harmony Korine, No Twilight Within the Courts of the Sun, Significant Other, Get All You Deserve, Salvaging, Veneno Para Las Hadas

Steven's first proper foray as a solo artist, Insurgentes is, I gotta say, quite the banger to start your career with. Starting with Harmony Korine all the way to the final track, Steven gives a pretty, sometimes noisy, shoegaze-inspired, dark-laden and moody journey through its 55 minutes of runtime. What is this journey? Do the lyrics make sense? The answer is probably no for both of them, but there's probably some mad lad who has tried to piece together what it all means. What I can definitely say is that if you're interested to hear something new, even if you can recognize some parts of it (this is somewhat of a common thing for SW—see No Twilight from this album which is very Bedlam-era TMV inspired, and The Raven That Refused To Sing (And Other Stories), which is based on 80's and 70's prog rock.)

Steven Wilson | NSRGNTS RMXS (6/10)

It's a collection of Insurgentes tracks remixed and... eeeeeh. Not a fan of a lot of the remixes. I guess Engineers' mix of Abandoner and Pat Mastelotto's mix of Salvaging are good, but the rests are just so okay that I can't be asked to remember any details about them.

Steven Wilson | Grace For Drowning (9~10/10)
Favorite Tracks: Sectarian, Raider II, Index, Belle De Jeur, No Part Of Me, Fluid Tap, Raider Accelerations

Only a second album in (Unreleased Electronic, NSGRTS RMXS and Tape Recordings don't count, since they were more compilations of old stuff and remixes of Insurgentes tracks), and SW has already made some of its greatest material here. I'm still shocked that the whole thing is just 1 hour and 23 minutes (44 minutes if we add the tracks from the third deluxe-exclusive CD), because it never feels that long whenever it is on for me. The influences are starting to become just a bit more obvious (Raider II, the 23 minute behemoth of the album, is essentially just an evil and extended interpretation of King Crimson's Cirkus), but it still keeps itself fresh. My hesitation on whether to give it a 9 or a 10 is simply because of one singular track on the whole album: Raider Prelude, and the reason for it is that it just doesn't feel like it's a prelude to Raider II—most of the elements that appear in RII are introduced early on in Sectarian, but hey, perhaps I'm just missing something.

Totally recommend giving it a spin someday, especially if you're a prog rock fan.

Steven Wilson | Get All You Deserver (8/10)

A much better and longer set of live songs than C/P/A, even if I'm starting to get fucking burned out from Raider II. Nothing else to say. aaaAAAAaaa

Steven Wilson | The Raven That Refused To Sing (And Other Stories) [10/10]
Favorite Stories: The Pin Drop, The Raven That Refused To Sing, The Holy Drinker, Clock Song, The Watchmaker, Luminol

Is this essentially SW sucking 70's prog rock for 54 minute? Yes, I'll admit that. Does that mean I care that it's not "original" or whatever? Fuck no, this album's fucking amazing even if it's not "original". Even the outtake track, Clock Song, is amazing. Perhaps the concept is about the only thing that most people would agree is original: each song telling of a some kind of supernatural story, from a busker that even in death continues playing in a corner street, to a dying man obsessed with a crow that might be his long-dead sister, to a televangelist challenging the Devil to a drinking game, losing and being sent straight to hell, all set through instrumentals ranging from heavy, VdGG-like prog, like in The Holy Drinker and Luminol, to more soft-sounding guitar ballads, Pink Floyd or Gentle Giant-esque, such as the title track or The Watchmaker. It covers the whole spectrum of what prog was in the 70's, and dammit if Steven did not succeed on doing so. Hell, just to sell on the whole "throwback prog" aesthetic, he got Alan Parsons (Alan Parsons Project, Dark Side of the Moon, Abbey Road) to personally engineer the whole album. How cool is that?

Steven Wilson | Drive Home EP (7/10)
Favorite Tracks: The Birthday Party, The Raven That Refused To Sing (Orchestral)
Containing another outtake from the Raven sessions, an edit of Drive Home, an orchestral version of TRTRTS and a selection of live tracks from a Frankfurt show, Drive Home EP is really nothing special beyond The Birthday Party and TRTRTS (Orchestral) which could have easily been added to the deluxe edition of The Raven That Refused To Sing (And Other Stories)

Steven Wilson | Cover Version + Soundcloud Rarities (8/10)
Favorite Tracks: Four Trees Down, The Unquiet Grave, Well You're Wrong, An End to End, Vapour Trail Lullaby, Godfearing, Cut Ribbon
From 2003 to 2010, Steven released a variety of interesting singles: Side-A features a cover of some kind, while Side-B features an original song by Steven. For the curious, the covers were Thank U, The Day Before You Came, A Forest, The Guitar Lesson, Sign o' the Times, and Lord of the Reedy River. For the sake of this chart, I decided to only listen to Steven's B-sides (and add in some curios that SW has released through his Soundcloud and/or MySpace) and leave the covers for another time.

Seeing that this were released through a long period of time, you can pick on elements that Steven would use for albums, like Moment I Lost, Please Come Home and Four Trees Down, which wouldn't sound out of place as part of Grace For Drowning with their acoustic guitars, pianos and use of acapella, while tracks like The Unquiet Grave and An End to End would comfortably sit in the Insurgentes era. On the other hand, the Soundcloud/MySpace releases are even more eclectic soundscape, with Vapour Trail Lullaby coming off as a soft prog rock ballad, while Cut Ribbon and Godfearing appear to be cut from the same cloth as the heavier tracks of Insurgentes or Grace For Drowning. Even if somewhat inconsistent, this is a nice listen overall.

Steven Wilson | Hand. Cannot. Erase. (10/10)
Favorite Tracks: 3 Years Later, Hand Cannot Erase, Home Invasion/Regret #9, Ancestral, Happy Returns/Ascendant Here On...
Based loosely on Joyce Carol Vincent, Hand. Cannot. Erase. tells the story of an isolated artist fascinated by disappeared people. As the album (and the online blog that worked to provide some more context to the plot) progress, the artist becomes more and more isolated until she no longer sees any worth on the outside (Home Invasion)... until she decides for a reason or another to visit her brother one last time (Happy Returns) before something happens to her, most likely an extraterrestial taking her away (the last post for both accounts feature mysterious glows accompanied by the title of the last track, Ascendant Here On...).

Music-wise, Steven is now starting to diverge more into slightly more poppy prog (Steven said that one of his main inspirations for this new sound was Kate Bush's The Dreaming), but retaining that moody, dark edge from previous releases, such as the heavy Home Invasion, but also going a bit more subdued and angelical(?) with Ascendant Here On... and the title track. Another absolute banger, what else can I say?

Steven Wilson | 4½ (8/10)
Favorite Tracks: My Book of Regrets, Happiness III, Vermillioncore, Don't Hate Me

Released between Hand. Cannot. Erase. and his next album To The Bone, 4½ contains outtakes from the HCE and Raven sessions and even some older material (Happiness III was written in 2003 and recorded in 2015, while Don't Hate Me is a re-recorded song from Porcupine Tree), made as a stop-gap to the new era of SW (one I've often heard is quite controversial, so we shall we see how TTB lands with me). It's classic SW, so I don't have much else to say beyond being a good listen.

Steven Wilson | To The Bone (9/10)
Favorite Tracks: To The Bone, The Same Asylum As Before, Refuge, People Who Eat Darkness, Permanating, Song of I, Detonation, Song of Unborn

Prog pop? Sure, why not. While most large artists/bands that started as prog rock that try to move towards pop tend to have some pretty heavy setbacks (Gentle Giant, Yes, et al), SW manages to pull it off pretty sweetly, in no part helped due to his influences (Peter Gabriel's So, Kate Bush's Hounds of Love, Talk Talk's The Colour of Spring, and Tears for Fears' The Seeds of Love as per the SW webpage), and in another having seeing what those bands had to struggle with when going pop, recognizing how they fucked up and not committing those same mistakes.

So, Steven decides to explore further the sound he created with Hand. Cannot. Erase. and evolve it to a more artsy and catchy direction, and even breach some pretty heavy subjects (the whole of Detonation, as funky and groovy as it is, is about the Pulse nightclub shooter, while Song of Unborn is about the fear of being born in a dangerous world, with the last words being Don't be afraid to be alive, don't be afraid insert :rationality: or something idk) in the meanwhile.

And yes, my number for TTB is quite curious, since this album in general seems to be quite lower for many compared to HCE but what can I say? I was pretty charmed by it.

Steven Wilson | Last Day of June (8/10)
As far as I know, the game is based on the story Drive Home which is about a car crash of some kind, so uh... the game's probably based around that. Anyways, since most of the songs are just either edits of older songs, old songs or instrumental versions of old songs, my score would be a bit obvious. Also, I decided to look what those songs are, and here it is:

Some Things Cannot Be Changed = Belle De Jour
The Last Day Of June = Routine (Instrumental)
Driving Home = End of The Raven That Refused To Sing
The Boy Who Lost His Friends = End of Deform To Form A Star
Time For A New Start = Insurgentes (Instrumental)
Under The Shadow Of My Father = Track One
Accept = Veneno Para Las Hadas (Instrumental)
Together, Forever Again = Significant Other (Instrumental)

Steven Wilson | Home Invasion: In Concert at the Royal Albert Hall (8/10)
Thankfully, unlike Get All That You Deserve, I wasn't completely fatigued to the idea of listening to live Wilson, and this is post-Grace For Drowning so it was gonna be interesting to hear a lot of these new songs played live. Unfortunately (depending on how you see it), most of the tracklist is taken by TTB, so hey, maybe you'll like live TTB than studio TTB? ¯\_(ツ)_/¯