The Mars Volta | Tremulant EP (7/10)
Favorite Tracks: Concertina, Eunuch Provocateur

I'm planning to make more in-depth review about each album now, so here we go:

Like Deloused, Tremulant is a very clear transitional part of the Mars Volta's discography: it still contains some post-hardcore elements from At The Drive-In (clear examples being Cut That City and Eunuch Provocateur) while also providing a taste of what TMV (and Omar in his solo releases) would do later on, with ambient pieces accompanied by strange, reverb-y sounds like the beginning of Cut That City and the ending of Eunuch Provocateur. Concertina is also a hint of a subject that will reappear later on with Deloused, Frances and Amputechture, while also being in itself one of the best TMV songs. It also contains one of my favorite lines written by Cedric from Cut That City:

Go to the lexicon you sluggard, if you will

The Mars Volta | De-loused in the Comatorium (9/10)
Favorite Tracks: Roulette Dares (The Haunt of), Eriatarka, Cicatriz ESP, Televators, Take The Vail Cerpin Taxt

As as I said with Tremulant, this is a transitional part of The Mars Volta as their feet laid in between the lands of post-hardcore and progressive rock: while Cedric's changes between that post-hardcore energetic singing and a more calm voice in songs like Televators and Eriatarka and Omar's guitars and Jon Theodore's drumming sound equally loud and complex, the lyrics feel more impactful and at the same time more word salad-y, thanks in part because of the concept of the album (a week-long comatose man has dreams after dreams of strange events, ending with his suicide after waking up from the coma) and the fact that the story was based on the suicide of Julio Venegas aka Cerpin Taxt, who the band blame previous At The Drive-In member Ben Rodriguez for driving him to that direction.

Overall, I enjoyed this record and it's definitely one of the high points for the band, although the next record is considered their best (I agree, but I think that Octahedron and Noctourniquet are better). Oh, and I should mention that there are two songs that don't appear in this album: Ambuletz, a nightmarish song that appears to be related in some way to the Cerpin Taxt story, and A Plague Upon Your Hissing, which contains lyrics that would be used for Amputechture, but that's another story for another day.

The Mars Volta | Frances the Mute (10/10)
Favorite Tracks: Cygnus... Vismund Cygnus, Miranda That Ghost Just Isn't Holy Anymore, Cassandra Gemini, Frances the Mute

Goddamn this is still a fantastic album, although it's one I have to have a certain mind space to listen fully. It ditches almost every single element of post-hardcore that was left in Tremulant and De-Loused in the Comatorium and instead turns it into frenetic prog rock, with inspirations from salsa, ambient, long jam sections, tape loops and all-round goodness. If I ever return to this album, is either for Cygnus..., L'Via or the title track, or if I feel like just listening to one song, Cassandra Gemini.

The Mars Volta | Amputechture (7~8/10)
Favorite Tracks: Tetragrammaton, Day of the Baphomets, Meccamputechture, Vermicide, Asilos Magdalena

I totally understand the band's opinion of this album as the "autistic child" of their discography. It features more ambient and experimentation than before (the whole of Vicarious Atonement and El Ciervo Vulnerado) while at the same time giving us even longer songs than usual (only two songs are below the 6 minutes mark). As far as I know, this was the album that separated the fanbase at the time, and even for the band it was a weird time: their drummer Jon Theodore left the band after the release of this album, and according to the band themselves, the recording of their next album turned out to be the weirdest (although the story is certainly fictional).

The Mars Volta | Scab Dates (7/10)
Favorite Tracks: Take The Veil Cerpin Taxt (including Gust of Mutts And Ghosted Pouts), Cicatriz

The Mars Volta | Live EP (8/10) Favorite tracks: Drunkship of Lanterns, Cicatriz ESP, Take The Veil Cerpin Taxt (not from the Live EP, taken from the Televators single)

This two live releases show The Mars Volta during their tours supporting Deloused and Frances, and while neither of them have any proper Frances song (Cicatriz features parts of Cassandra Gemini and the middle improv part of Drunkship from the Live EP would be reused for the second half of Cygnus), they do show the band at their highest point during the show, with the exception of Cedric, who is... not very good live. Honestly, if you want to listen to a proper live show, go listen to Live at the Electric Ballroom which I heard is the best show in fan's opinion. (And it's the only one whose source is from the soundboard and not from the crowd, which is nice.)

The Mars Volta | The Bedlam in Goliath (8~9/10)
Favorite Tracks: Goliath, Askepios, Ouroborous, Ilyena, Conjugal Burns, Agadez, Soothsayer, Metatron, Aberinkula

[Originally there was a writing of the album's backstory, but because Discord's a bitch, there will be a .pdf with the full story instead.]

So, with that out of the way, what about the album? Well, it certainly has a distinct middle-east/Arabian sound, with clear examples being the song Soothsayer or the middle-to-end section of Aberinkula. Overall, I would say this is a more streamlined Frances with elements of Amputechture here and there in terms of sound experimentation, and a good "entry album" alongside Deloused. Replacing Jon Theodore in drums is Thomas Pridgen, who provides a different kind of frenetism to the songs which are already a loud, fast and proggy as they could be.

The Mars Volta | Octahedron (9/10)
Favorite tracks: Luciforms, Teflon, Copernicus, With Twilight As My Guide, Cotopaxi, Desperate Graves

Yes, that's a 9. Fite me.

This is Mars Volta's "acoustic album", but not acoustic in the "no electronic", but in their own way, which means toning it down the loudness quite a bit while keeping the keyboards (no longer Ikey Owens, instead replaced by Omar's brother Marcel), electric guitars and bass and everything they had before. In fact, there are only three appearances of the acoustic guitar, which are Since We've Been Wrong, With Twilight as My Guide and Copernicus. That doesn't mean that there aren't loud songs: Cotopaxi, Luciforms and the second half of Since We've Been Wrong are pretty much the loudest this album gets.

Now, if you do want a 'proper' TMV album from this era, listen to Xenophanes by Omar Rodriguez-Lopez, which was supposed to be a TMV album, but Omar thought it would fit better as a solo release than as an TMV album. (Hell, even Thomas Pridgen thought during recording Xenophanes was going to be a TMV album.)

The Mars Volta | Noctourniquet (10/10)
Favorite Tracks: Zed and Two Naughts, Vedamalady, In Absentia, The Malkin Jewel, Aegis, The Whip Hand, Dyslexicon, Noctourniquet

Okay, so a little explanation: this album was probably one of the last I had left to listen of The Mars Volta (alongside Octahedron) a few years ago because I always heard that the band dropped in quality after Bedlam (as you can see, I'm not one of those people), and of course, if this was back a few years later, I would have given it an 8 or 7. But now, why a 10?

Simple: after listening to all the TMV albums and the whole of Omar's discography under my belt, I came to appreciate this album as a much, much better release than anything Omar released during the 2012-13 period. The only of those releases that comes close to being almost as good as Nocto is Unicorn Skeleton Mask, and even that one has certain issues for me. Noctourniquet is the band's "pop record", but that doesn't mean that it's just simple (by TMV's standard) prog rock songs. It's a very extremely overwhelming and loud listening, with constant sounds of electric keyboards, guitars and the ever-so-complex and busy drumming of Deantoni Parks, making his first and last appearance (probably) in a TMV album. For me, one of the band's best efforts, and sadly (probably) their last.